= Redmine Wiki Graphviz-macro plugin

Redmine Wiki Graphviz-macro plugin will allow Redmine's wiki to render graph image.

== Features

* Add wiki macro {{graphviz}} and {{graphviz_me}}
* Write wiki page as dot format, and the macros make it graph image.

=== {{graphviz}} macro

* This macro render graph image from other wiki page's content.

    {{graphviz(Foo)}}
    {{graphviz(option=value,Foo)}}
    {{graphviz(layout=neato,target=_blank,with_source,Foo)}}

* format={png|jpg}
* layout={dot|neato|fdp|twopi|circo}
* target={_blank|any}
* with_source : Display both image and its source(dot)
* no_map : Disable clickable map.
* wiki=page : Link image to specified wiki page.
* link_to_image : Link image to itself.
* align=value : Additional attr for IMG.
   e.g.) right, left
* width=value : Additional attr for IMG. 
   It is recommended to use no_map option together.
   e.g.) 100px, 200%
* height=value : Additional attr for IMG. 
   It is recommended to use no_map option together.
   e.g.) 100px, 200%

=== {{graphviz_me}} macro

* This macro render graph image from the wiki page which includes this macro. 
* Use this macro *commented out* like below. If it is not commented out, renderer fails syntax error.

    // {{graphviz_me()}}
    // {{graphviz_me(option=value)}}

* options: See graphviz macro.
* When previewing, this macro output the image into img@src with data scheme. Thus, old browsers can't render it.

== Tips

* On Windows, If you want to use the text which is NOT written in English(Such as Japanese) in the graph,  You should specify "fontname" attribute to the object like below.

  somenode [label="some text in Japanese", fontname="MS Gothic"]

  NOTE: "MS Gothic" is just example. You should specify it using real font name. "MS"(ZENAKU) + HANKAKU White space + "Gothic"(ZENAKU KATAKANA)

== Requirement

* Redmine 2.1.0 or later.
* ruby 1.9
* Graphviz  http://www.graphviz.org
  * There are 2ways about setting up graphviz for this plugin.
  * The one is using Gv which is ruby binding of graphviz.
    * Recommended for unix system.
	* The plugin uses fork() and IO.pipe to capture STDERR which holds error message output from Gv.
  * The other one is using external dot command which is on the PATH.
    * For Windows system, Only this way of setting is available.
	* The dot command is executed twice by the plugin when one graph is rendered. First one to render the image. Second one to create clickable map.

  * Example of installed graphviz package.
    
    e.g.) CentOS 5.5 using Gv.
      graphviz-2.26.3-1.el5
      graphviz-gd-2.26.3-1.el5
      graphviz-ruby-2.26.3-1.el5
    e.g.) Ubuntu (10.04) using Gv.
      graphviz
      graphviz-dev
      libgv-ruby
    e.g.) Windows XP Pro SP3(ja) using external dot command.
      graphviz-2.26.3
* memcached (optional)

== Getting the plugin

https://github.com/tckz/redmine-wiki_graphviz_plugin

e.g.)
git clone git://github.com/tckz/redmine-wiki_graphviz_plugin.git wiki_graphviz_plugin


== Install

1. Copy the plugin tree into #{RAILS_ROOT}/plugins/
    e.g.)
    #{RAILS_ROOT}/plugins/
        wiki_graphviz_plugin/

2. Make sure the temporary directory writable by the process of redmine.
    #{RAILS_ROOT}/tmp/

   This plugin try to create follwing directory and create tmporary file under it.
    #{RAILS_ROOT}/tmp/wiki_graphviz_plugin/

3. Restart Redmine.

=== Optional

* If you want to use caching feature for rendered images, must configure your cache_store.
* This plugin expects the store like ActiveSupport::Cache::MemCacheStore which provides marshaling when set/get the value. 

1. Setup caching environment, like memcached.
2. Configure cache_store.
     e.g.) config/environments/production.rb
     config.action_controller.perform_caching = true
     config.action_controller.cache_store = :mem_cache_store, "localhost" 
3. Restart Redmine.
4. Login to Redmine as an Administrator.
3. Setup wiki graphviz-macro settings in the Plugin settings panel.

== License

This plugin is licensed under the GNU GPL v2.  See COPYRIGHT.txt and GPL.txt for details.

== My environment

* CentOS 6.3 x64
* ruby-1.9.3p194
* mysql-server-5.1.61-4.el6.x86_64
* graphviz-2.26.0-7.el6.x86_64
* redmine-2.1.0



